+++
title = "AI & Compilers"
description = """\
  In this essay, Carson Gross discusses whether or not current AI tools are similar to early compilers"""
date = 2026-03-18
updated = 2026-03-18
authors = ["Carson Gross"]
[taxonomies]
tag = ["posts"]
+++

A common refrain that we hear today is that the move to AI-based tools for coding is like the move from assembly to
high level programming languages [using compilers](https://x.com/Steve_Yegge/status/1966230719212220457).  In 
["Yes, and..."](@/essays/yes-and.md) I mentioned that I don't agree with that simile and in this essay, after a conversation
with a good friend on the topic, I want to expand on that idea.

## LLMs Are Not Deterministic

In ["Yes, and..."](@/essays/yes-and.md) I make the point that LLMs are stochastic systems and compilers are not.  This alone should make any
direct comparison between the two technologies suspect, but it bears repeating: given the same input, compilers should
produce the same output in a deterministic manner, whereas LLMs are designed explicitly to (statistically speaking) 
*not* give the same output.

## Prompts Are Not Source Code

Another major difference between the move to high level languages and AI tools today builds on the first observation:
prompts are not source code.

Prompts are not typically saved alongside the resulting actual code.  Sometimes design documents are stored alongside
the actual code and are fed into LLMs to continue working on a given area of code, but the entire series of prompts that
lead to the current state of the codebase is typically not captured.  

Even if the entire series _was_ captured, because of point 1, there isn't any mechanism for deterministically understanding
why the code is in the state that it currently is in.

Again, this contrasts with the way that compilers work: you have the entire high-level language source for a project, you 
compile it into an executable (or bytecode or whatever.)

Now, there may be decisions in the high-level language that are not obvious given the current state of the high-level code
but that's the point: the high-level code is _there_, in your codebase, in a way that prompts are not.

## You Can't Debug A Prompt

High-level languages have a wonderful tool associated with them called [a debugger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debugger),
which lets you step through code in a high-level language and "watch" what happens.

This is possible because of the deterministic relationship between high-level code and the actual operations occurring
in the underlying machine (or virtual machine) which allows a mapping between the two.

Such a mapping cannot exist between prompts and running code.

In fact, "debugging a prompt", if it makes any sense at all, probably sounds like a code-time activity rather than 
either a compile time or runtime activity to most people reading this, which is telling.

## "I haven't written any code in months!"

I see people saying this, but they are engaged in a sleight of hand, intentionally or not.  They _have_ written code (often
lots of code!) in the past few months, they just haven't _typed_ that code.

The actual artifacts on disk, the "source of truth" is _still_ the code that they generated (and perhaps 
[do not understand](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GFiWEjCedzY).)

If something is wrong, and you want to understand what it is, you _have_ to read the code.  The prompts made the code
but the prompts are gone, leaving only the code and perhaps some tests for you to work from.

Someone might reply that they will just have an LLM read the code, which is a plausible response but again differentiates
AI from high-level programming languages.

## Code Complexity Still Matters



## This is not an Anti-AI Essay

Again, as I said in "Yes, and...", I am not anti-AI, and I am figuring out how to effectively use AI in my own coding
workflows.  I tend to use it in an exploratory manner and as a coding assistant, rather than as a code-generator.  My
experience with code generated by AI is mixed: sometimes it does a decent job, often it doesn't.  But that is my own
experience and involves some subjectivity around what is decent code and what isn't.

My point is not that AI is bad, but rather that simplistic mappings of AI-based coding onto the shift to high-level languages
is, at the current time, wrong-headed and misleading.  Maybe we will develop AI-native languages that allow us to specify
systems deterministically using much higher level language[^1].

But until we start seeing things like that we should be skeptical of people who claim 


[^1] - Personally, I think that's called lisp and, despite that, I still choose to code in java.