---
layout: layout.njk
tags: post
title: kutty 0.0.1 has been released!
---

## Kutty 0.0.1 Release

I'm pleased to announce the [0.0.1 release](https://unpkg.com/browse/kutty.org@0.0.1/) of kutty, the successor
to [intercooler.js](http://intercoolerjs.org)!

Like intercooler, kutty brings the power of modern browsers into HTML.

#### What's new & different about kutty vs. intercooler?

* First and foremost, kutty has [*no external dependencies*](https://github.com/bigskysoftware/kutty/blob/master/package.json) !
  No more dragging in jQuery just to do HTML-oriented web development.
* I've tried to follow conventional naming and behavior standards more closely where applicable (e.g. [`innerHTML`](/attributes/kt-swap) and [`outerHTML`](/attributes/kt-swap))
* Kutty isn't the kitchen-sink-of-features that intercooler is.  I went into intercooler wanting to never write javascript.  
  With kutty I scaled that back and focused on extensibility and leaning on the browser more 
* Kutty has a better swapping mechanism which introduces a settling step, which allows for nice CSS transitions
  with minimal complexity.  Check out the [progress bar](/examples/progress-bar) to see how this works: by returning
  HTML in the old web 1.0 style, you can get nice, smooth CSS-based transitions.  Fun!

Beyond that, basic kutty and intercooler code will look a lot a like:

```html
  <div kt-post="/clicked">Click Me!</div>
```

This will issue an AJAX post to `/clicked`, in a manner familiar to anyone who has used intercooler.

#### What will happen to intercooler?

I'm planning on maintaining both projects.  Intercooler is a slow moving project anyway, and the code is stable and
works fine for people who want to go the jQuery route.  I have a large application written with it and I'm not planning
on moving that to kutty any time soon.

#### How hard will a port to kutty from intercooler be?

Depends a lot on how into the weeds you got with intercooler.  The core attributes are pretty close to one another
but if you were using `ic-action` or event handlers extensively it will be a project.  That's why I chose to rename it,
and to continue to maintain intercooler.

#### OK, so what should I do?

The usual:

* read the [docs](/docs)
* star the [repo](https://github.com/bigskysoftware/kutty)
* tell your friends
* enjoy fully functional HTML, the way [Roy Fielding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer) intended it

Cheers!