---
layout: layout.njk
tags: ['posts',  'announcements']
title: htmx 1.7.0 has been released!
date: 2022-02-22
---

## htmx 1.7.0 Release

I'm happy to announce the [1.7.0 release](https://unpkg.com/browse/htmx.org@1.7.0/) of htmx.

### New Features

* The new [`hx-sync`](/attributes/hx-sync) attribute allows you to synchronize multiple element requests on a single
  element using various strategies (e.g. replace)
  * You can also now abort an element making a request by sending it the `htmx:abort` event
* Server Sent Events and Web Sockets are now available as extensions, in addition to the normal core support.  In
  htmx 2.0, the current `hx-sse` and `hx-ws` attributes will be moved entirely out to these new extensions.  By
  moving these features to extensions we will be able to add functionality to both of them without compromising the
  core file size of htmx.  You are encouraged to move over to the new extensions, but `hx-sse` and `hx-ws` will continue
  to work indefinitely in htmx 1.x.
* You can now mask out [attribute inheritance](/docs#inheritance) via the [`hx-disinherit`](/attributes/hx-disinherit) attribute.
* The `HX-Push` header can now have the `false` value, which will prevent a history snapshot from occuring.
* A new [`alpine-morph`](/extensions/alpine-morph) allows you to use Alpine's swapping engine, which preserves Alpine
* A [restored](/extensions/restored) extension was added that will trigger a `restore` event on all elements in the DOM
  on history restoration.
* The `this` symbol now resolves properly for the [`hx-include`](/attributes/hx-include) and [`hx-indicator`](/attributes/hx-indicator)
  attributes
* When an object is included via the [`hx-vals`](/attributes/hx-vals) attribute, it will be converted to JSON (rather 
  than rendering as the string "\[Object object]")
* You can now pass a swap style in to the `htmx.ajax()` function call.
* Poll events now contain a `target` attribute, allowing you to filter a poll on the element that is polling.
* Two new Out Of Band-related events were added: `htmx:oobBeforeSwap` & `htmx:oobAfterSwap`
  
### Improvements & Bug fixes

* Many, many documentation updates (thank you to all the contributors!)

Enjoy!
